## Collections
Each set of data (referred to by the library as a `database`) is stored in a collection.
Each `database` gets a name which is then used to define this single data collection,
like so:

- `data-{name}`

All collections are stored in the Splitgill managed MongoDB database called `sg`.

In addition to each data collection, two "system" collections exist, one called
`options`, and one called `locks`.
These are used to manage each database's parsing options and locking respectively.

### Data Collection Model
Each document in a data collection represents one record including its current and
previous versions.

The documents are relatively simple, containing the following fields:

- `id` _(string)_ - the ID of the record
- `version` _(int)_ - the current version of the record
- `data` _(object)_ - the current data of the record
- `diffs` _(string)_ - a log of the previous versions and diffs that can incrementally
  rebuild their complete data objects using the latest data as a starting point (more on
  this below)

Each document also has an automatically assigned ID (the default MongoDB `_id` field)
which isn't used by Splitgill for any specific purpose.

#### The `version` field
The version field defines the moment in time this record's data was set to the current
value.

The version is defined as the number of milliseconds since the UNIX timestamp.
For example `22/07/23 23:55:07 UTC` is `1690070107000`.
Version numbers can only go forward in Splitgill and will be assigned by Splitgill
itself (using the current time at the moment of data storage).

If the version field is `null` it means the data in the record hasn't been committed
yet.
This allows Splitgill to manage a certain level of transactionality.

#### The `data` field
This field stores a modified version of the original data presented to Splitgill by the
caller.
The code which performs these modifications is located in the
`splitgill.diffing.prepare_data` function.

The data must be a passed to Splitgill as a dict whereby it will then be passed
through this prepare function, before being diffed (if necessary) and stored in MongoDB.
The data is modified in this way to sanitise it and provide consistent uniformity when
diffing and patching.

If the data field's value is an empty dict then this means the record has been deleted.

#### The `diffs` field
This field contains the previous versions of the record data as diffs that can be
applied to the current data incrementally to recreate these old versions.
The diffs are generated by the `splitgill.diffing.diff` function and can then be applied
using the `splitgill.diffing.patch` function.
Each diff is associated with the version it can recreate.

The diffs allow the recreation of each version of the data at the version the diff
represents.
To achieve this, the diffs have to be applied in reverse version order from most recent
to oldest.
The diffs have to be applied incrementally, they can only recreate the version by being
applied to the data from the next version.
For example, if there is a record with the versions 1, 4, 5, and 10.
To rebuild the data for version 1:

- patch current data (version 10) with version 5 diff
- patch result of previous step with version 4 diff
- patch result of previous step with version 1 diff


### Options Collection

The `options` collection stores parsing options for the databases.
The parsing options define how the data in MongoDB should be parsed and indexed in
Elasticsearch.

Each database that contains data must have at least one set of parsing options stored in
this collection.
Each set of parsing options is versioned to allow correct recreation of data at all
versions.

The parsing options are managed using the `splitgill.model.ParsingOptions` class which
can be instantiated directly, but it is recommended to use the `ParsingOptionsBuilder`
from the `splitgill.indexing.options` module.

For details on the specific parsing options available, check the Elasticsearch model
page.


### Locks Collection

The `locks` collection stores locks for various Splitgill operations to ensure only one
process is running a specific type of task at a time.
This collection is only used for internal Splitgill processes.




#### Available Parsing Options

##### Boolean parsing

Lists string values which when encountered will be indexed as booleans (``).
A list of true and false values can be set using the keys `true_values` and
`false_values` respectively.

For example:

```python
from splitgill.indexing.options import ParsingOptionsBuilder

builder = ParsingOptionsBuilder()

# true values
builder.with_true_value("true").with_true_value("yes").with_true_value("y")
# false values
builder.with_false_value("false").with_false_value("no").with_false_value("n")

options = builder.build()
```
